//text strings to be integrated as instructional & introductory prefaces

//INSTRUCTION ENGLISH ONLY
  Click on the animated objectss to learn more about background radiation at its elevation in the atmosphere. 

//INTRODUCTION ENGLISH
  This artwork illustrates the sources, the types, and the intensity of the background radiation that is present in natural environments of interest for the scientist-users of TRIUMF.  
  
  The TRIUMF Irradiation Facilities (PIF & NIF) operate beamline infrastructure that enables commercial and research use of protons and neutrons beams of various energies to a wide community of users from around the world.  
  
  Electronic components can be damaged and fail when energetic particles in the environment interact with the atoms of the material in the components.  The proton and neutron beams of the TRIUMF Irradiation Facilities reproduce the natural environment but at a much higher intensity, to quickly check if and how electronic components are likely to fail.  For example, the total radiation dose of a 5-year space mission can be achieved in just a few hours, without needing to go to space! 
 
  For nearly 25 years, one of these beamlines was used to extract a lower energy proton beam from TRIUMF’s main cyclotron for the proton radiotherapy clinical treatment of severe cases of ocular melanoma, in collaboration with BC Cancer and UBC Ophthalmology.  This was the first clinical use of proton beams for cancer treatment in Canada.
  
  In 2021, this infographic was awarded a Registered Graphic Designers, RGD In-House award for Science Communication Design. 

//INTRODUCTION FRENCH
  Cette illustration présente un aperçu des sources, des types et de l’intensité de la radioactivité naturelle présente dans divers environnements qui intéressent les scientifiques-utilisateurs de TRIUMF. 

  Les installations d’irradiation PIF & NIF de TRIUMF comportent des lignes de faisceau aux protons et aux neutrons de diverses énergies. Elles sont utilisées à des fins commerciales ou de recherche par une vaste communauté d’utilisateurs qui viennent de partout dans le monde.
  
  Les composantes électroniques peuvent être endommagées lorsqu’une particule énergétique interagit avec un atome du matériel de ces composantes.  Les faisceaux de protons et de neutrons des installations d’irradiation de TRIUMF sont semblables à l’environnement de rayonnement naturel mais ils sont d’une intensité beaucoup plus élevée.  Cela nous permet d’étudier rapidement le comportement de ces composantes en présence de radiation.  Ainsi, par exemple, on peut exposer en quelques heures une composante électronique à une dose totale de radiation qui correspond à une mission spatiale de 5 ans, sans quitter la Terre! 

  Pendant 25 ans, l’une de ces lignes de faisceau a aussi été utilisée pour la radiothérapie aux protons de patients atteints de mélanome oculaire.  Opéré en collaboration avec BC Cancer et le département d’ophtalmologie de UBC, ce centre de traitement, utilisant un faisceau de protons extrait à basse énergie du cyclotron principal de TRIUMF, a été le premier centre clinique de radiothérapie aux protons en opération au Canada. 

  En 2021, l’illustration a remporté un prix “RGD In-House Award” de la “Association of Registered Graphic Designers” du Canada dans la catégorie “Science Communication Design”.
